# 01.Introduction

Python is a free, easy-to-learn and readable programming language.

Now let's start.

## 01-01. From the Perspective of Expressions

First, consider the formula as follows:
$$
3.14159\times r^2
$$
We may be calculating the area of a circle with a radius $r$. The formula has a certain value (if `r` is given).

This is called an expression. 

**Informally, an expression is something computable and it has a certain value.**

An equation is not an expression as it cannot be considered as something with a value.

Basically, `123+r` is an expression,`123-34` is, and even `r` is, as well as `1` .

Next, let's leave from the world of math. Anything with a value is an expression.

+ `the number of the students here` is a sequence of words.
+ `my name` has a non-digital value.
+ `all letters` has a value which is a sequence of letters.
+ `today is Monday` has a value of true or false.

Actually, **anything can be expressions**. It only depends on what you think a value is like.

+ `e=2.718` is an equation, but an expression with a value of true or false as well.
+ `you` is an expression whose value is a person.
+ `sin` has a value of a mathematical function.
+ `all the possibilities in the future ` has a value which is an infinite sequence of events.

However, in computers we cannot store such different kinds of values.

For the simple ones, we have to give representations.

For the complicated ones (like something with values of infinite sequences), we have to ban them.



## 01-02. Definition and Representation for Values

In Python, we have the following kinds of values:

+ Object

...

Okay, that's a joke, though just everything in Python is object. Here I just say, every expression gives an object as its value.

Basically, there are some kinds of objects (not all):

+ integer
+ real number
+ true or false
+ function
+ sequences of letters
+ none

And a table:

| Type Name (formal name in Python)    | Description          | Example Expressions |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------- | ------------------- |
| int                                  | integer              | 123                 |
| float                                | real number          | 123.45              |
| bool                                 | true or false        | True                |
| <class 'builtin_function_or_method'> | function             | print               |
| str                                  | sequences of letters | 'abc'               |
| NoneType                             | none                 | None                |



## 01-03. Hello World!

Make sure you know how to execute a Python code with scripts mode like this (if you have a file named "hello\_world\.py" at "C:\\Users\\administrator") in your console:

> C:\\Users\\administrator\> python hello_world.py

If you know nothing, see [python installation](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/111168324). If you do not have a editor like sublime, you can use your Notepad (default installed on Windows) to open the "\.py" file directly.

Then press Win+R and enter "cmd" to open a console. You can use `cd anywhere` to change your current directory.

For example, if you have `C:\Users\administrator\Desktop\hello.py` and want to run it, enter `cd C:\Users\administrator\Desktop` and `python hello.py`.

Or you can enter `python C:\Users\administrator\Desktop\hello.py` instead.

Now let's consider the first function we are going to learn: `print`.

Just like `sin` , `print` is also a function and you can use it as follows:

```python
print(123) # like sin(x)
```

Now, create your "\.py" file with this line and run it to see what happens.

You have to know that we know nothing about the details of programs. We know nothing about the value of any expression unless we ask the program to tell us. The print function just plays such a role. It tells the value of an expression. Basically, it tells us what a object is like (here the object is integer: 123).

One last thing, do not forget `print(123)` is also an expression with a value.

Unfortunately, its value is `None` and we will explain what is `None` later. By now, you can check thisway:

```python
print(print(123))
```

In the end, let's say:

```python
print('Hello World!')
```



## 01-04. Grammar

I know you may feel confused and have many questions. But remember the first thing you should understand is how Python understand your code.

You will not expect the following code can be run:

```python
Please help me to calcuate 1+2+...+99+100, my dear Python!
```

Or, more reasonable:

```python
print(1+2+...+99+100)
```

Actually, the only thing we can ask Python to do is to calculate the value of an expression.

So first of all, you should know what an expression should be like.

Basically, an expression is some **objects** like `123` or `print` and some **operators** like `+` or `()`.

We will learn operators later but representation of objects now.

+ `int`

  An `int` should be a sequence of digits (0-9). You can add `+` or `-` in the front.

+ `float`

  A `float` should be like  `12.` for 12.0, `.13` for 0.13, `1.2` , `1e3` for 1000.0 and `-1.2e3` for -1200.0.

+ `bool`

  `True` or `False`.

+ `<class 'builtin_function_or_method'>`

  Directly its name, like `print `.

+ `str`

  Either `'example str'` or `"example str"` . Other representation will be learned later.

+ `NoneType`

  `None`.

What's more, in Python **you can add any number of blanks around operators**, like:

```python
print(1+1)
print(1 +    1)
print    (1+1)
print        ( (  True*  2)   +3 )
(  True*  2)   +3
```

One exception:

```python
   +1
  (  True*  2)   +3
```

**The number of blanks in the front of a line is strictly regulated.** At first, never add any (you will see `IndentationError: unexpected indent` ).



## 01-05. Advance*

Here are some questions which are far beyond the beginners' level.

You can think about them but you are not asked to answer them.

But do not see the answers without much thinking.

1. What difference is between the two expressions `print` and `print(123)` ? How to check your answer?

2. What will happen if we run `print(print(print(123)))` ? How to explain each line of your output? How many lines do you get? Why not one line? What steps does `print` actually do? Try `print()`.

3. Now you see `print` and `print()`. What role does `()` plays here? Whether it is an object or an operator? What difference is between `()` in `print(123)` and `123-(123+123)` ?

4. Function `type` will tell you the type of an object. Try `type(123)`. Explain the steps when you run `type(123+123)`.

5. The functions are callable, which means you can use operators `()` to realize some function of functions. But functions are not the only objects that are callable. Here I don't explain what is a "class", but I tell you `int` is also callable.

   What is the value of `int` ? What is the value of `type(123)` ? What is the value of `int()` ? Can we use `type(123)()` ? What is the value of `int(123)` ?

6. What is `type` ? Is `type` a function ? What difference is between the types of `type` and `print` ? Can we use `type(type(int)(123))(123)(123)` ? How does this work ?



## 01-06. Answers

1. `print` is a function while `print(123)` returns `None`. Use `print(print)` and `print(print(123))` to check this.

2. `print(print(print(123)))` will output 3 lines:

   ```
   123
   None
   None
   ```

   The first, second and third `print` respectively cause the third, second and first line.

   Analysis:

   ```
   print(print(print(123)))
   print(print(None))
   print(None)
   None
   ```

   Actually, `print` uses numbers and letters to explain what an object is and then gives a new line.

   Thus, `print()` explains nothing and only gives a new line.

3. `print` is a function while `print()` returns `None`. Different from that in `123-(123+123)`, `()` in `print()` is a operator to connect a function with other objects (sometimes no other object) to build an expression.

4. `type(123+123)` calculates the expression `123+123` first and leads to `type(246)`, which returns `<class 'int'>`.

5. `int` is `<class 'int'>`.

   `type(123)` is `<class 'int'>`.

   `int()` returns `0`.

   `type(123)()` is equal to `int()`.

   `int(123)` returns `123`.

6. `type` is `<class 'type'>`, actually a class.

   Not like `print` which is `<built-in function print>`, `type` is not a function, though callable.

   `type(type(int)(123))(123)(123)` returns `123`.

   Analysis:

   ```
   type(type(int)(123))(123)(123)
   type(type(123))(123)(123)
   type(int)(123)(123)
   type(123)(123)
   int(123)
   123
   ```

   Actually, the any value of `type(...)` is something whose type is `type`.

   The any value of `type(type(...))` is `type`. And `type` is a kind of `type` ( `type(type)` returns `type` ).

   Note that `type` and `<class 'type'>` refer to the same object. The latter, however, is not an object but just a description of `type`, like we use digits to describe numbers.

